README.md, before:

# Snippets Explorer

This extension displays all available Visual Studio Code language snippets in a TreeView.

![Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abulka/vscode-snippets-explorer/master/images/videos/demo1.gif)

## Features

- Open up the `Snippets Explorer` treeview on the left and see all the snippets available for your current editor coding language
- Preview snippet bodies and click to insert any snippet
- A convenient way to check out the possibilites available to you

### Examples

Try editing a Javascript file, you'll see all the available javascript snippets listed in the `Snippets Explorer` treeview.
Click on e.g. the `for` snippet in the treeview and the for loop snippet template
will be inserted into your code.

Try editing a markdown `.md` document and you'll see bold, italic and various markdown 
snippet templates appear in the `Snippets Explorer` treeview, under the `markdown` category.
Select a word, click on 'bold' in the treeview and your word becomes wrapped in bold markdown. 

# Installation

View in the Visual Studio Code marketplace https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wware.snippets-explorer

Or search for `wware` in the extensions search window of vscode and install from there!

## How to Use

After the extension is installed, a treeview should be available called "Snippets Explorer". 

![feature X](images/doc/getting-started-1.png)

Simply click to expand it and you should see all the snippets for the language of the currently open editor.

![feature X](images/doc/getting-started-2.png)

- Hover over a snippet in the treeview to see the `body` of the snippet that will be inserted
- Click on a snippet in the treeview to insert that snippet into the active editor
- Hover over a snippet catefory to view the location of the snippet file
- Hit the refresh button in the treeview to re-scan all currently active snippet files for new or renamed snippets. 

### Why 'Refresh'?

Hitting the refresh button is useful after you have **added** a new user
snippet e.g. using the 3rd party extension [Snippet Creator](
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wware.snippet-creator)
extension, some other similar extension, or by hand editing the `JSON` snippet file. Hitting the refresh button is necessary because you want to see those new snippets appear in the Snippets Explorer treeview. This extension will not auto-detect such changes to snippet files.

The refresh command is also useful after editing a *project 
snippet file* or one of your language *user snippets* files.
>Tip: To edit your project snippet simply edit the relevant `.code-snippets` file in your project's `.vscode` directory. To edit your user snippets for a language simply run the built in command `Preferences: Configure User Snippets` - remember to hit the Snippets Explorer refresh button after editing, to refresh the treeview!

Finally, if you have **installed a new extension**, often extensions offer snippets, and you will want to re-scan for those using the refresh button.

## Where are snippets JSON files found?

There are four snippet locations that are scanned:
- Project Snippets
- User Snippets
- Extension Snippets
- Built in Extension Snippets

There does not seem to be any public API to enumerate all such snippet files in
a programmatic way. Therefore, this extension looks in the filesystem and finds
and reads in these snippets knowing where vscode keeps these files.

For more detail on this check out my [snippet locations](docs/finding_snippets_doco.md) developer notes.

## Requirements

This extension works with Visual Studio Code `1.47` and later on
- Mac, 
- Windows 10
- Linux

The Linux testing was made in Ubuntu 20.04 with Visual Studio Code installed via a **snap**, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/linux.

> Note if you have an older version of vscode installed via a snap e.g. *1.45* it may not upgrade properly to the required `1.47`. Simply uninstall vscode and install from snap again.

## Extension Settings

This extension has no extension settings available.

## Log files

For tracking down issues this extension's log directory is called `vscode-snippets-explorer`
and the main debug file inside that directory is named `debug.log` 
The extensions log directory can be found in:

| Platform | Path | Example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mac     | ~/Library/Logs/ |  `~/Library/Logs/vscode-snippets-explorer/debug.log` |
| Linux   | ~/.config | `~/.config/vscode-snippets-explorer\debug.log` |
| Windows | ~/AppData/Local/Programs/ | `C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Local\Programs\vscode-snippets-explorer\debug.log` |

## Known Issues

Python programmers may notice no official snippets listed. This is because the Python snippets were [deliberately removed](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66114581/vs-code-no-longer-shows-default-code-snippet-for-python) from the `microsoft / vscode-python` extension. Workaround [here](https://github.com/abulka/vscode-snippets-explorer/issues/8).

Packaging of extension javascript code not yet optimally 'bundled' - see issue #5

## Release Notes


See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

**Enjoy!**

Commit message:

1.0.4 release - portable mode snippet detection

README.md, after:

# Snippets Explorer

This extension displays all available Visual Studio Code language snippets in a TreeView.

![Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abulka/vscode-snippets-explorer/master/images/videos/demo1.gif)

## Features

- Open up the `Snippets Explorer` treeview on the left and see all the snippets available for your current editor coding language
- Preview snippet bodies and click to insert any snippet
- A convenient way to check out the possibilites available to you

### Examples

Try editing a Javascript file, you'll see all the available javascript snippets listed in the `Snippets Explorer` treeview.
Click on e.g. the `for` snippet in the treeview and the for loop snippet template
will be inserted into your code.

Try editing a markdown `.md` document and you'll see bold, italic and various markdown 
snippet templates appear in the `Snippets Explorer` treeview, under the `markdown` category.
Select a word, click on 'bold' in the treeview and your word becomes wrapped in bold markdown. 

# Installation

View in the Visual Studio Code marketplace https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wware.snippets-explorer

Or search for `wware` in the extensions search window of vscode and install from there!

## How to Use

After the extension is installed, a treeview should be available called "Snippets Explorer". 

![feature X](images/doc/getting-started-1.png)

Simply click to expand it and you should see all the snippets for the language of the currently open editor.

![feature X](images/doc/getting-started-2.png)

- Hover over a snippet in the treeview to see the `body` of the snippet that will be inserted
- Click on a snippet in the treeview to insert that snippet into the active editor
- Hover over a snippet catefory to view the location of the snippet file
- Hit the refresh button in the treeview to re-scan all currently active snippet files for new or renamed snippets. 

### Why 'Refresh'?

Hitting the refresh button is useful after you have **added** a new user
snippet e.g. using the 3rd party extension [Snippet Creator](
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wware.snippet-creator)
extension, some other similar extension, or by hand editing the `JSON` snippet file. Hitting the refresh button is necessary because you want to see those new snippets appear in the Snippets Explorer treeview. This extension will not auto-detect such changes to snippet files.

The refresh command is also useful after editing a *project 
snippet file* or one of your language *user snippets* files.
>Tip: To edit your project snippet simply edit the relevant `.code-snippets` file in your project's `.vscode` directory. To edit your user snippets for a language simply run the built in command `Preferences: Configure User Snippets` - remember to hit the Snippets Explorer refresh button after editing, to refresh the treeview!

Finally, if you have **installed a new extension**, often extensions offer snippets, and you will want to re-scan for those using the refresh button.

## Where are snippets JSON files found?

There are five snippet locations that are scanned:
- Project Snippets
- User Snippets
- Extension Snippets
- Built in Extension Snippets
- In the `data` directory underneath the vscode app (portable mode)

There does not seem to be any public API to enumerate all such snippet files in
a programmatic way. Therefore, this extension looks in the filesystem and finds
and reads in these snippets knowing where vscode keeps these files.

For more detail on this check out my [snippet locations](docs/finding_snippets_doco.md) developer notes.

## Requirements

This extension works with Visual Studio Code `1.47` and later on
- Mac, 
- Windows 10
- Linux

The Linux testing was made in Ubuntu 20.04 with Visual Studio Code installed via a **snap**, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/linux.

> Note if you have an older version of vscode installed via a snap e.g. *1.45* it may not upgrade properly to the required `1.47`. Simply uninstall vscode and install from snap again.

## Extension Settings

This extension has no extension settings available.

## Log files

For tracking down issues this extension's log directory is called `vscode-snippets-explorer`
and the main debug file inside that directory is named `debug.log` 
The extensions log directory can be found in:

| Platform | Path | Example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mac     | ~/Library/Logs/ |  `~/Library/Logs/vscode-snippets-explorer/debug.log` |
| Linux   | ~/.config | `~/.config/vscode-snippets-explorer\debug.log` |
| Windows | ~/AppData/Local/Programs/ | `C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Local\Programs\vscode-snippets-explorer\debug.log` |

## Known Issues

Python programmers may notice no official snippets listed. This is because the Python snippets were [deliberately removed](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66114581/vs-code-no-longer-shows-default-code-snippet-for-python) from the `microsoft / vscode-python` extension. Workaround [here](https://github.com/abulka/vscode-snippets-explorer/issues/8).

Packaging of extension javascript code not yet optimally 'bundled' - see issue #5

## Release Notes


See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

**Enjoy!**
